# MikroTik_Blocklist-DL
Linux shell script to download blocklists of malicious IPs and turn them into MikroTik scripts to import to firewall address lists

This project is a Linux shell script to download malicious IP blocklists from multiple internet sources, then strip the text files down to nothing but IPs or CIDR networks on each line of the text and dedupe, then use shell tools to parse the list and produce MikroTik scripts to import them as firewall address lists.  

For the first version, I have the script running on a webserver in the same room as my MikroTik RB951g router.  The shell script produces .rsc files in the root directory of my webserver and the System Scheduler on the router has a few lines to script the retrieval and import of the .rsc files.  I've added the Scheduler scripts as comments to the end of the bash shell file for reference.

The Linux shell script is named "downloadBlocklists.sh" and could be adjusted to suit probably any kind of environment.  I wrote this to replace a system I had been using for years which stopped working in Feb. 2020 when the site went down.  The MikroTik .rsc files on the site I was using to get these kinds of MikroTik malicious IP block lists from said "You may freely use, distribute, copy, modify, and use this blacklist however you like" so I've taken inspiration from the way those scripts were made and built a Linux shell script to reproduce them from currently available blacklists such as SpamHaus DROP and EDROP, dshield BLOCK, blocklist.de ALL

Use this at your own risk, it is provided as-is with no guarantees it will not break your Linux system or MikroTix router.  It works well for me so far, running the script on a CentOS server and importing the .rsc outputs on a little RB951g router.  My router has 128MB of RAM, so I would not recommend using the .rsc files this script creates on a router with less than 128MB RAM.  Currently the IP blocklists this script aggregates have about 30000 lines of IPs and CIDR networks in them, and this results in a good deal of RAM use during import on the router.  The Linux shell script runs in about 12 seconds for me, but the router import process takes 5 minutes or more with its CPU maxed out.
Anyone who wants to use this script can download, copy, or modify it anyway you like, subject to the legal limitations as required by law in their land whatever they may be.  You may not copy this shell script I wrote somewhere else and say you wrote it yourself, because that would be lame.  
